Okay. So what we're looking at here is a tool called 3D Slicer.
We will have links posted at the end of this section.
You can download this tool again and you can play with this yourself.
Let's load the NIfTI file,
which you have been processing in the previous lesson
when we were doing a 3D volume reconstruction.
We will do a more in-depth intro into the Slicer tool
so please don't mind if I'm not explaining some things in too much detail.
So once we have loaded this file,
we can see the three standard projections.
So we have talked about MPR,
the multiplanar reconstruction in the previous lesson,
that's exactly what we are looking at.
This is the axial slice,
that's the original acquisition plane,
this is the sagittal slice,
and this is the coronal slice.
The sagittal and coronal slices have been reconstructed in this dataset.
If I click and hold my left mouse button on this slice,
I will apply the windowing operation.
So we have talked about the window transform and
how we can select window sensor and window width.
In fact, if I select the module here,
so if I click on this button,
Slicer has a lot of different modules, right?
You can even write some of these modules yourself.
I will go to a volumes module which has to do with
different operations and transforms that we can do with this module.
I will select my current volume and as I move my mouse,
you can see how window level and the window width changes.
Let us actually change the window level and the window width to
a value of 500 for window level.
As you remember Hounsfield scale,
we're looking at the CT scan of a human head.
So 500 is right about where bone is,
and let us try to lower the width and get it to about 1,000 range.
Again, Hounsfield scale, so you remember how the width of the bone voxels is about 1,000,
so we are looking at bones here.
Now, let us try and visualize a 3D reconstruction of this volume,
Slicer has a quite elaborate 3D reconstruction module.
Let me select the volume and show it here in this window,
and let me expand this window a little bit.
So we can see a visualization of the human skull.
I can play with leveling here a little bit,
I can move this sliders around.
If I move them to the left here a little bit,
we can see the outline of a human head that was scanned.
If I move them to the right here,
this is where we get into higher density voxels,
and this is where I can get a nice and clear view of the bony structures.
What's interesting, if I keep moving to the right here,
as we increase the Hounsfield units that we're focusing on,
we will get rid of all the bony structures and
what will be left actually are the synthetic structures.
So this is what you saw if you did the volumetric rendering exercise in the last lesson,
this is what you should have seen as a result of this exercise.
So we got rid of all the natural structures and we have synthetic structures left.
So you can see that this person has a tooth implant and it's pretty clear that we are
looking at some dental implants here.
So we have just seen a demo of a 3D Slicer tool.
We will have a little bit more elaborate demo at the end of
this course but you are free to try and download
the Slicer on your own and try loading some of the data that we
will be encountering as you keep going through this course.